    "Computers that make commitments." That's the phrase, attributed to Chris Dixon, at the beginning of the year I heard him explain this era of computing this way, and I think I'm likely to always source my interest in this whole thing to that moment.

    An equally powerufl conversation was published in Charlie Warzel's newsletter last month. Alex Lammer did an exceptional job of pointing out a fundamental aspec tof the thing: it is, to a world raised on the post-corporate internet, as strange as the internet itself was to people in the 80s and 90s.

    Like the clip of Bill Gates on Letterman, playing at describing the value of doing anything online. Why listen to a baseball broadcast on a computer when radios exist, chided Dave in his characteristic tone. How could anyone come to the conclusion that using something the size of a small household appliance with a television strapped to it when ther were numerous alteratives? And when all of those were more convenient in one measure of antoher?

    Adam' McCay's production company is named Hyperoject, which is a term to describe not just a paper coffee cup but all paper coffee cups over a given period of time. [^Still think travel cups are too much of a hassle?] One of the core concepts that  ifound to be quite helpful in understanding the blockchain galaxy is that any given chain is a hyperobject. It is the collection of all the participant machines that allows a chain to exist and to perform any action. Without all of the combined computation there is no experience for anyone. The collection of engagement is the computer. [^Scott McNeely strikes again!]

This is how blockchain applications, like BTC or ETH, have been painted with the bad-for-the-planet brush. In order for those computers to compute, a significant amount of electricity is consumed. That we ar eliving through a moment of reckoning as a species in tersm of what we do to produce electricity, being an experiemental daliance in cyberspace does create something of an easy target for criticism.

However there are plenty of other areas where the realtionship between humanity's energy consumption and our ability to inhabit the planet, and so it strikes me that this is not a reason to dismiss the tehcnology out of hand. I'm not going to ask that we ignore this aspect of the technology; rather that we set it aside.

Another red herring which I think is worth setting aside are the present applications of the technology. While the instantiating document -- the Magna Carta -- is the Bitcoin white paper, it is naive to dismiss all that is happening because the world doesn't need a different store of value. We can even table the fact that the ability to transact without a nation-state involved is very much worth having exist. It is more than enough to point out othat everything being built today; everything you've heard about; all of it sno more than $TK_YEARS_SINCE_SATOSHI. It will take some time before things stop looking like Bill trying to replace Dave's radio.

The fundamental state of life online now, which was not true before, is that digital scarcity exists. That represents a change to the ecology of cyberspace. And when those things happen a whole bunch of shit comes along with it.

The last time there was a shift of this scope was the smartphone; the set of assumptions which changed when computing became predominantly mobile is massive and multi-variat. Broad and deep. And long. This is why the galaxy metaphor feels appropriate; there are entire solar systems of ideas, only some of which have been understood htus far, each with multiple planetary bodies existing together.

One of these areas of interest I am drawn to is identity. All of the new possibilities unlocked by having verifiable means of identifying and tying a user in cyberspace to their physical presence are facinating. [^It is a potential sidetrack to explore th culture critique behind why selling each other digital goods has proven more popular in these early days. For now it's enough to say that we are still, as a species, demonstrably driven by displays of wealth and status.] As my most direct application of identity is my desire to share my thinking, the crew at Mirror are of particular interest.

Coming out as an early contender for the Blogger prize[^Ask your parents], the Mirror tools allow anyone to connect to the means of commercializing the written word.

The expression of blockchain technology Mirror is able to provide is precisely what spoke to me as a bloger a couple of decades back. Of course there are ways the monetization of writing can be done; the important bit is what will now be possible. Whereas even the most successful one-person shop can produce writing people value, that value isn't available with a chain of attribution, patronage, and distribution. Building an audience and a point-of-view can now offer a tangible value in and of itself [^The philosophical questions around doing this are somethign for another time.]

The ways in which publishing essays like this one can take on new meaning is only one aspect of the planet containing it. That planet includes other forms of creative expression, such as musicians and visual artists. And that solar system further contains ideas of state and organizational identity, and an area related to CVs and skills development, and another for pseyduonyimty. And more still beyond me at this moment.

In adjacent systems are DAOs and DeFi and NFTs and Bitcoin and dark money and plenty more things both exciting as well as concerning. It wouldn't be exploration if there weren't pitfalls, charlatans, and greed. But, again, to bury one's head in the sand, or seek to tar and feather anyone who hasn't already done so, is no way to live. Go find anyone over the age of sixty and ask them what the popular opinion of personal computing was in 1975; to have believed that we'd all be living as we do today would've had you labelled a heretic.[^My favorite dystopian example here is Gary Shtyngart's Super Sad True Love Story.]

Which is how I've arrived here with you, dear reader. My life's circumstances are such that I'm more motivated to set out and explore than to stay in place. I've not had something I wanted to be myself for in quite some time. There have been prior attempts to uncover my 'beat' as it were, and there's very little which has excited me; end of the S-curve and all that. While reaching the point where our phones ar replaced with a pair of glasses sounds exciting, it's the applications of blockchain tehcnology which enables the most interesting scenarios even in that environment. Like what is fashion in a world where one's appearance to others is the product of software code as opposed to makeup or textiles?

Two of my favorite thinkers of the last century were Hunter Thompson and John Perry Barlow. They were each exceedingly their own characters; unapologetically so. My hope is that I can channel a bit of their energy, along with a number of others, as I navigate this new world. This is the first in a collection of essays; of letters home; of dispatches from the field.

If you're at all interested, I do hope you'll let me know.